{
  "title" : "Playbooks",
  "alwaysopen" : "true",
  "weight" : "300"
}

The playbooks offered here are what I imagine makes sense for a game set in the
Universal Century, but it's your table and your game--you should totally play
how you want.

For the existing _Scum and Villainy_ playbooks, I would drop **The Mystic**.
It's a really cool playbook, but a lot of the Way moves don't quite match the
way that mystical things usually work in the UC.

That said, there are some cool things that the Mystic does (like the
**Psy-Blade** move) that feel a lot like what some of Gundam's Newtype
characters do in extremis, so you could totally make it work. It might just be a
more magical Gundam game, and if that's what you want--go nuts!

## Newtype characters

[*Newtypes*](http://gundam.wikia.com/wiki/Newtype) are a core part of the
fictions in more than one of the Gundam universes, but nowhere more so than in
the Universal Century.

Depending on when you situation your game, Newtypes might be a secret the world
and your characters are discovering, established individuals respected for their
perception and wisdom, or hated and hunted others.

Most of the time, Newtypes are [spacenoids](/characters/heritage/#spacenoid)
whose minds and souls, unburdened by gravity, have begun to awaken and use all
of human potential. Sometimes, they are Cyber Newtypes--humans who have been
subjected to extreme physical and psychological stimulation, and even some
modification, to awaken these abilities forcibly.

_Mobile Suits in the Black_ offers three tools for playing Newtypes:

- a **Newtype** playbook, for playing an established Newtype character like Amuro
    Ray or Char Aznable in _Char's Counterattack_
- a **Cyber Newtype** playbook, for playing characters who have been *made* into
    something like Newtypes, whether voluntarily or not. Characters like Gyunei
    Guss in _Char's Counterattack_ and _Four Murasame_ from _Zeta_ are examples
    of both ends of this spectrum
- a **Newtype Flash** moveset, which is a set of moves you can take as veteran
    advances as your character awakens to their latent Newtype abilities, much
    like Kamille Bidan at the beginning of _Zeta_, or Fa Yuiry later on in
    _Zeta_

This isn't to say that the **Newtype** and **Cyber Newtype** moves are off
limits as veteran advances--just that the **Newtype Flash** moves are
specifically designed to help you play a character that's just coming to grips
with their abilities. A lot of them might be interesting for even a **Cyber
Newtype** who's fresh out of the lab, but suddenly discovering the less warlike
side of their abilities, or a **Newtype** who begins to remember what it was
like when they were younger and begin experiencing that strength of emotion
again.
