---
title: Argama
weight: 0001
---

# The Game

_Argama_ is a game about the divided interests of Soldiers and Command, about
the different understandings of necessary action of frontline activists and
high-level strategists, about the sacrifices of people putting their
bodies on the line on the ground, demanded by the people pulling strings from
safety and comfort.

It cares about the tension inherent in "upstairs, downstairs".

_Argama_ is a game for 4 or 5 people (6 perhaps, at a stretch and with care).
One player will take on the role of the MC, and the others will take on the dual
roles of Tactical Officers and Soldiers (or Directors and Volunteers, or
Kings and Pawns) all in the Resistance, a fragile coalition united to oppose the
depredations of a corrupt Enemy.

When a player acts as a Tactical Officer, they will be making decisions about
what actions the Resistance will take, what it defends, what it sacrifices,
where it aims.

When a player acts as a Soldier, they will be playing a member of the
Resistance's Ace Squad. They will be working to accomplish whatever task the
Tactical Officers have set them.

The Resistance is not always a truly united entity. It is often a coalition of
necessity, or convenience. The factions that sponsor the Resistance might have
been bitter enemies until the rise of the Enemy forced them to work together for
survival. One Tactical Officer will represent the Resistance itself, and the
others each represent one of these sponsor factions.

There will be times when all the Tactical Officers agree on the most necessary
courses of action, and the orders that Tactical sends to the Soldiers are good
and just.

There will also be times that the Tactical Officers prioritize their own
faction's benefit over the Resistance' cause, or providing support to the
Soldiers on the ground. The Soldiers must still deal with their orders, but if
this becomes too unbearable, the Contempt the Soldiers feel can shake the
Resistance to its core.

## Pairing _Argama_ with other games

_Argama_ is a parasite game. It is a parasite game because it is meant to be a
replacement for the front, threat map, faction game, etc of other roleplaying
games. _Argama_ only contains rules for the Tactical game, as well as a system
of Soldiers' Contempt, and the Crisis it may cause in the Resistance.

_Argama's_ Tactical game is meant to be a drop-in replacement for the fronts,
threat maps, and faction games in other tabletop roleplaying games. The
characters you play in those are _Argama's_ Soldiers.

Play _Argama_ if you want to involve players other than the GM or MC in the
high-level political machinations of a barely-cohesive Resistance to a corrupt
and hungry Enemy.

_Argama_ is designed to be as open as possible to pairing with any game. It
should work with most [Forged in the
Dark](https://bladesinthedark.com/licensing) games, most [Powered by the
Apocalypse](http://apocalypse-world.com/pbta/) games, most d20 games, most OSR
games... it touches its partner game's character play mechanics very little.

It does have some requirements though. Because the narrative thrust of _Argama_
is about taking and directing action against an actively encroaching threat, it
does not work very well with more pastoral games or play-styles. If you paired
_Argama_ with _Apocalypse World_, for example, The Hardholder playbook would not
be a great choice for a Soldier (though most everything else would be
excellent). If you paired it  with something like [Beam
Saber](https://austin-ramsay.itch.io/beamsaber) or [Armour
Astir](http://tinyurl.com/armourastir), it will probably just... drop right in.

The only change that _Argama_ offers to its partner game's character play is
offering Contempt to the Soldiers. Soldiers can Contempt take when they feel that
Tactical's actions are undermining the cause, or needlessly endangering them.
