---
title: The Resistance
weight: 200
---

# The Resistance

War has been ravaging the world and space for decades. Victim becomes aggressor,
aggressor becomes victor, victor becomes victim in a never ending cycle.

Ten years ago the Last War ended. It was supposed to be the last war ever
fought, but now, while the name is the same, it just means it was the last war
we found ourselves in. The Earth Federacy won, and for a while disarmament
seemed to proceed apace.

And then the Federacy created the _Stampede_, their special forces. The Stampede
are soldiers with special permission to follow any matter they choose, using any
methods they like, to root out the last of the Federacy's enemies. We call
_them_ the Enemy.

The _Stampede's_ power corrupted them. Or maybe they were corrupt from the
start. It doesn't matter, either way, it is your job to resist them.

## We are the Resistance

In _Against the Titans of War_, you take on multiple roles in the Resistance.
The Resistance is a coalition of anyone who stands against the Enemy. Some of
you may have been the closest allies in the Last War. Some of you were bitter
enemies. Your work is as much about finding the common ground with each other so
so you can stand strong together as it is to fight the Enemy.

## Creating your Resistance and Enemy

When it comes time to begin your game, you will need to define your Resistance,
and your Enemy. These two entities are very closely intertwined--where one
fights for peoples' freedoms, the other crushes a tight fist. They won't always
be polar opposites, and there may be some uncomfortable similarities... but they
are _always_ in conversation with each other.

For now, don't worry about the Resistance sponsor factions--there will probably
be places where their values differ from the Resistance, and that's good and
interesting. This first step is about defining what you as players think is the
evil of the Enemy, the rightness of the Resistance, and the grey in between.

### Who are the Enemy?

To create your Enemy, answer the following questions:

### Who are we, the Resistance?

To create the Resistance, answer these questions:

