{
  "title" : "Heritage",
  "weight" : "100"
}

Heritage is mechanically unchanged from _Scum and Villainy_, but the options are
changed to match the early UC period.

Heritages are:

- Earth-born
- Spacenoid
- Jovian
- Zeon
- Laboratory

If you grew up on the earth, you are **earth-born**. The Universal Century
started 80 or more years ago with the creation of the first colonies, but your
family stayed on the earth. They might be involved in the Federation government,
or have a strong attachment to a particular area or piece of land. You might
have been to space before, but you still have ties to the earth.

**Spacenoids** live in the colonies orbiting the earth, and sometimes further
afield in the asteroid belt or orbiting other planets. Whether you and yours
have been in space for generations, or you've come just recently to seek out new
possibilities for yourself, the colonies are your home. And there's always this
talk of 'Newtypes' popping up too...

Between the energy harvesting, and its transport, enough people moved to Jupiter
for **Jovians** to qualify as their own heritage. For the most part mysterious,
Jovians live with a deeply entrenched hierarchy in their society. While there
are some characteristics shared with more general spacenoid society, Jovians
still attract attention wherever they go.

Regardless of the year, people who call themselves **Zeon** often find
themselves in opposition to people from Earth, and even more so the Federation.
Most of your family and friends would have been very proud to call themselves
Zeon, and that pride has bled ever deeper as the torch has passed from
Principality to Remnant to Axis to Neo Zeon.

There are whispers about children who were raised in a **Laboratory** by
secretive and powerful organizations, children who underwent experiments to
understand exactly what these so-called 'Newtypes' are, and how they come
about... Life in a lab isn't easy, even at the best of times. You've likely
endured harrowing phychological experiemnts, and you've possibly even blocked
some of the experiences out of your mind. Regardless, you've come out changed.

### Content warning for the Laboratory heritage

The **Laboratory** heritage is intentionally harsh and dark. The first Cyber Newtype
characters we ever meet in _Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam_ have had incredibly
difficult lives and are frequently unstable.

It does not have to be like this--Gyunei Guss from _Char's Counterattack_ is an
example of a relatively happy person who underwent Cyber Newtype treatment
voluntarily... but then, he wasn't a child abducted by one of the Gryps
Conflict-era Newtype Labs.

You don't have to choose this heritage to play a Cyber Newtype, and be sure to
talk to your table about what people are comfortable with.
