---
title: Vice
weight: "300"
---

Vice is still an important part of the game.

## New vice: Shore Leave

In addition to the vices listed in _Scum and Villainy_ on page 60, you can also
add the classic Gundam vice, **Shore Leave**. This is that scene in every show
where the protagonist is strolling through Von Braun city, or through one of the
parks in the colony. You know, the scenes where they're likely to...

### Run into a Rival

**Run into a Rival** is a new option for over-indulgence. This is a little like
the **Big Talk** overindulgence, except instead of heat coming down on you from
someone hearing something, you've got one of the crew's rivals **right
_there_**.

This can present an opportunity though... you might be able to tail them
unnoticed and find out what _they're_ up to. But if they see you... you'll have
to deal with a rival immediately.


## Note on the 'Weird' vice

This is still a totally valid vice, but within the scope of Mobile Suit Gundam,
it mostly means delving down the back alleys of your budding Newtype mind. This
is super great, but talk with your table about whether it fits with what
everyone is expecting out of the game.

If I were playing a game set during the One Year War, I'd at least consider
switching to Weird later on, maybe after taking a Newtype advance, rather than
starting with it. Newtype phenomena is introduced slowly throughout the first
series, and it's possible that your fellow players will be expecting not to see
many, if any at all, Newtype stuff in your game.

On the other hand, if I were playing a game set during the Gryps Conflict or
later, choosing the Weird vice from the get-go fits a lot more with people's
preconceptions of the world at that point.  MSZG especially is lousy with weird
stuff from the jump.

That said, a lot of Newtype stuff in UC 0079 is great, and a game exclusively
focused on 'oldtypes' during the UC 0080s and 0090s is also great. Just talk
to your table about the elements you'll be introducing into the game!
