---
title: Tactical
weight: 400
---

In addition to playing a **Soldier**, you will also be taking on the role of a
**Tactical Officer**.

**Tactical Officers** do not engage the Enemy directly--they are responsible for
planning the Resistance's strategy to take down the Enemy.

Each **Tactical Officer** is also a member of one of the Resistance's **sponsor
factions**, and will likely have their own more selfish goals in addition to
defeating the Enemy.

During Tactical, the MC takes on the role of the **Intelligence Officer** in
addition to their normal role. As the Intelligence Officer, the MC's job is to
present all information as honestly and openly as possible. Don't lie or fuck
around here--life is going to be hard enough for the Tactical Officers as it is.

## The Tactical phase

The first thing you do when you begin playing _Against the Titans of War_, after
you've created your characters, the Resistance, the Enemy, and your factions, is
begin your first **Tactical phase**. Your MC will have some information for you
about the Enemy and their goals, and you will take on the roles of your
**Tactical Officers** and decide how the Resistance responds. You will also
return to the **Tactical phase** when you have resolved
[**fallout**](/missions-tier-and-resources/#fallout-entanglements) after each
mission.

In **Tactical phase**, you should follow these steps:

0. The MC, as the **Intelligence Officer** rolls for intel, and presents this to
   the **Tactical Officers**. If any officers bid to have priority on intel,
   they should see it first, and may choose to alter it before others see it
0. Each **Tactical Officer** decides to how much **Influence** to spend on their
   faction's growth, and how much to spend on **STRAT** for Resistance operations
1. Determine each **Tactical Officer's** **STRAT** for the phase
2. Decide on the Resistance's next objective
3. Attach **Riders** to the mission objective
4. Submit **Orders** and intel bids for the next mission to the MC

### Intel

Beginning in the second Tactical phase, the MC as the Intelligence Officer will
roll the Resistance's Tier to determine how much intel is available to the
Tactical Officers. During the first Tactical phase, give 3 intel as if a 6 had
been rolled:

- 1-3: 1 Enemy activity
- 4-5: 2 Enemy activities
- 6: 3 Enemy activities
- Crit: 5 Enemy activities, or all if there are fewer than 5 this turn, and the
    Soldier's get a bonus die on their next Engagement roll

This roll should happen *after* the MC has planned out the Enemy's activity, and
also implies that the Enemy should be making at least 3-4 actions on any given
turn.

It is possible that one or more Tactical Officers have spent **STRAT** in order
to look at intel ahead of their colleagues. If this is the case, the
Intelligence Officer should show the intel to the officers in order of who bid
the most **STRAT**, highest first. If there is a tie, the faction with the
highest Tier gets priority. If this is tied, choose at random.

Each Tactical Officer may choose to redact a piece of intel for 1 **STRAT**, or
replace it with false information for 2 **STRAT** if they have any left from the
last tactical phase.

If any Tactical Officers choose to redact or tamper with intel, then officers
seeing it after them, whether in the group or further down the priority intel
line, will be seeing incomplete or false information.

### Allocating Influence

Your faction's **Influence** for the **Tactical phase** is determined by how
involved and supportive you were on the last mission. Take 1 **Influence** for
each of the following:

- the squad used one of the resources your faction supports in the last mission.
    If the squad used more than 1, take 1 **Influence** per resource used
- a Soldier on the squad is from your faction
- a **Rider** or **Order** was completed on the last mission that gave you an
    extra **Influence** (take 1 **Influence** for each of these if there were
    more than one)

For each of these, take -1 **Influence**:

- a Soldier spent **Contempt** that they took because of one of your actions
- a Soldier completed a **Rider** or **Order**, likely placed by another sponsor
    faction, that caused you to lose **Influence**

Once you have determined your total **Influence**, you need to decide how to
spend it: you can use your **Influence** to roll **STRAT**, or you can spend any
amount of **Influence** to increase your faction's
[**Momentum**](/factions/#momentum) 1 for 1 in order to eventually build its
strength. You can also spend **Momentum** to increase the **Influence** you roll
for **STRAT** this turn.

### Determining STRAT

**STRAT** is the currency **Tactical Officers** use to influence the
Resistance's objective and mission parameters. You spend it to attach **Riders**
to a mission objective, and to issue **Orders** to Soldiers or to your faction.

You can use **STRAT** to make sure the Resistance stays on track and has the
best chance of defeating the Enemy... or you can use it selfishly to get the Resistance to
help your own faction into a better position.

To determine your **Tactical Officer's** **STRAT**, roll the
[**Influence**](/tactical/influence/) you've decided to use for Resistance
operations. If your current **Influence** is 0, [roll
0d6](https://bladesinthedark.com/core-system#rolling-the-dice) (roll 2d6 and
take the lowest result). Your base **STRAT** is equal to the single highest die
result. If you roll a **crit** (two or more 6s if you have 2 or more
**influence**), take 8 **STRAT**.

**STRAT** does not roll over--if you don't use it during the current **Tactical
phase**, it cannot be used in the next one.

Once you have determined your **STRAT**, tell everyone at the table how much
your **Tactical Officer** has. After this, you don't have to tell anyone how
much **STRAT** you have or are spending. It's time to count the cards.

### Deciding on an objective

Discuss an objective for the Resistance to pursue, or a mission to undertake
with the other **Tactical Officers**. This should be some kind of consensus, and
there are no rules for this. The only thing to know is that if the **Tactical
Officers** become deadlocked between two or more plans, anyone can spend
**STRAT** to tip the scales one way or another.

The officer with the most **STRAT** gets the opportunity to do this first, and
the option passes in descending order by **STRAT** count.

If at any point you think your Soldier would find the behavior, politicking,
selfishness, or goals decided by the **Tactical Officers** contemptible, you
make take [**Contempt**](/tactical/contempt/).

### Riders

**Riders** are supplemental mission objectives, or conditions placed on the
squad for achieving or pursuing the main objective. These are **optional** for
the squad, though if any Soldier pursues and achieves one, they **mark 1 XP.**
If a **Rider** is achieved by the squad as a whole (for example, "perform the
exfiltration without leaving any evidence that the Resistance was involved"),
then each Soldier marks 1 XP.

If a Soldier fulfills a **Rider** _alone_ and that Soldier is from the same
faction that placed the **Rider**, they mark 2 XP.

It costs 1 **STRAT** to attach one **Rider** to a mission or goal.

As a **Tactical Officer**, attaching **Riders** to a mission is a good way to
privilege your own faction's benefit over the general benefit of the Resistance
or other sponsor factions. Keep in mind that **Riders** are open knowledge, and
Soldiers may take **Contempt** if they disagree.

### Orders

**Orders** are instructions to the MC to carry out certain actions during the
mission, either at a certain point, or when specific trigger criteria are met.
These can be instructions like **_if_ the Enemy dispatches more than 2 squads to
intercept, _then_ my faction will send in 1 squad to support** or something more
self-serving like **_when_ the Soldiers have secured the prototype, _then_ offer
2 XP to Harding, a Soldier from my faction, to deliver it directly to us and not
the Resistance**.

Unlike **Riders**, **Orders** are submitted blind to the MC, who is in charge of
executing them based on your instructions. This is where your faction can
_really_ maneuver for primacy within the Resistance leadership. It is also the
only way to dispatch support resources to your Soldiers if you think they might
need it, so place your **Orders** wisely.

While a Soldier won't know what **Orders** have been placed until they execute,
they can still take **Contempt** once an **Order** is revealed.

**Orders** can cost from 1 **STRAT** up to 6 **STRAT**:

- an **Order** that executes at a certain time, irregardless of situation costs
    **1 STRAT**
- an **Order** that involves a conditional, like **if... then...** costs **2
    STRAT**. If it looks like the condition won't come up in the mission, you
    can instruct the MC to execute the order at any time by paying **1 STRAT**
    more
- an **Order** that is to a specific Soldier, whether it is conditional or not,
    costs **3 STRAT**. You can offer up to 3 XP to that Soldier for **1 STRAT**
    per XP. These can also be executed at any time for a cost of **1 STRAT**

When deciding **Orders**, every **Tactical Officer** should take an index card,
and write your name, or your faction's name on it, and any orders you have. If
you are not submitting orders, submit an index card with the name and "no
orders" to the MC. These should be given to the MC face down to maintain
secrecy.

## Bidding on priority Intel

The last thing you can do with you **STRAT** is bid on priority access to intel
for the next mission. Your bids for intel should be submitted on the same card
you use to submit your orders. Everyone who bids will see intel before the next
tactical phase, in order of how much the officer bid (from highest to lowest).

If you bid to see intel, you will see all intel gathered by the **Intelligence
Officer**. The amount available is determined by them in secret at the end of a
mission, by rolling the **Resistance's** Tier.

After rolling intel, the **Intelligence Officer** (MC) should determine the
order to show intel to any officers that bid, and contact each officer one by
one. This is a good thing to do in between sessions, because officers should not
know if another officer has seen the intel before them.

### Redacting intel

When you see intel after bidding, if you have **STRAT** left, you can spend 1
**STRAT** to redact it, so that no one else sees it. Any officers who see it
after you, whether they bid or during tactical, will not know that it existed.
You can spend 2 **STRAT** to replace it with **false intelligence**.

### Bookkeeping and overspending STRAT

Once you have announced your total STRAT to the table at the beginning of
**Tactical phase**, you are no longer obligated to be truthful about how much
you have spent or have left. You are welcome to tell everyone, but I encourage
you to keep it close to the chest.

The other **Tactical Officers** will have an idea of how much **STRAT** you have
for issuing **Orders**, but because these are submitted blind, they will know
you've submitted at least 1, but neither how many, nor what kind. Which means
they won't know exactly how much **STRAT** you spend or how much you have left
for changing execution conditions during a mission. The only other person at the
table who will, is the MC.

I intend to include optional rules for bluffing and overspending **STRAT**, but
the core rule is don't. If you realize you have by accident overspent at some
some point, own up and decide with the group how to resolve and proceed.
