---
title: Riders
weight: 300
---

**Riders** are ways for a faction to influence a mission even once the objective
is decided.

These can be secondary objectives, optional conditions for achieving the primary
objective, and also be attempts to have the **Soldiers** do something to benefit
your faction over the other sponsors.

**Riders** are made openly, remember, so if any Soldiers think your Rider is too
self-serving, or even hurts the cause for your own benefit, they might take
[**Contempt**](/tactical/contempt/).


## Example Riders

These are some example Riders. You should also feel free to create your own. If
you are unsure, talk through what you'd like to incentivize with the other
players.

#### No trace

Offer 1 XP to each Soldier if the mission is carried out silently and leave no
indication that the Resistance was involved.

#### Propaganda

Offer 1 XP to any Soldier, or 2 XP to a Soldier from your own faction, to
promote the faction during the mission. You may also optionally specify how this
should happen. If completed, take a +1 **Influence** bonus in the next Tactical
phase. Remember, Riders are open, so you might cause **Contempt** with this.

#### Internecine rivalry

Offer 1 XP to any Soldier, or 2 XP to a Soldier from your own faction, to
put out word that another sponsor faction cannot be trusted. If completed, that
faction takes a -1 **Influence** penalty in the next Tactical phase. Remember,
Riders are open, so you might cause **Contempt** with this.

#### Intelligence gathering

Offer 1 XP to any Soldier, or 2 XP to a Soldier from your own faction, to
secure Enemy intel on the mission. You may either grant this to the Resistance
for a bonus die on the next intel roll, or keep it for yourself as 1
**Influence**.

#### Protect civilians

Offer 1 XP to each Soldier if the mission is carried out without civilian
casualties.

#### Bloodbath

Offer 1 XP to any Soldier who takes out an Enemy combatant.

#### False flag

Offer 1 XP to each Soldier if they make the operation look like the work of any
faction you name (including the Enemy or non-sponsor factions).

#### Scorched earth

Offer 1 XP to each Soldier if they render a specific asset or location unusable
or uninhabitable during the mission.
